In previous lectures we talked about kinematics
and in particular we talked about forward
kinematics. And that's the problem of given
the joint angles of the robot. One is the
pose of the robots end effector. We then moved
on and we talked about inverse kinematic which
is the problem given the end effector pose,
what are the joint angles needed to achieve that?
In this lecture we are going to be talking
about velocities. We're interested in the
relationship between the velocity of the joint
angles and the velocity of the end effector.
We're interested in the derivative of the
end effector pose.
And one of the topics we're going to discuss
is what exactly does it mean to take the derivative
of the pose of the end effector of a robot.
We're going to start our discussion simply
and consider robots that operate only in the
plane. And in the next lecture we are going
to talk about this for robots that move within
three dimensions.